Best Big Chocolate Chip Cookies
Makes 18 big cookies (or 54 smaller cookies)
From Once Upon a Tart by Frank Mentesana and Jerome Audureau
with modifications by Sharon Pauley

Ingredients
20 tablespoons (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups packed light-brown sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 1/4 cups unbleached all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
3/4 teaspoons salt
2 cups semisweet chocolate chips or 12 ounces dark chocolate broken into pieces

1. Position you oven racks so that one is in the center.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees.

2. Cream the butter and sugar together in a big bowl, using the whisk attachment of an electric mixer on high speed (or a sturdy wire whisk), until they are fluffy and light lemon-yellow in color, about 5 minutes. With the mixer on low speed, beat in the eggs one at a time, then the vanilla.

3. In a separate, medium-sized bowl, whisk the flour, baking soda, and salt together. Gradually add this to the wet ingredients, using the paddle attachment of your mixer on low speed (or stirring with a wooden spoon) until no flour is visible. Then stir in the chocolate chips.

4. Scoop dough, eyeballing the first for size a ball of dough between 1/8 to 1/4 cup in volume, then match following dough balls to size of the first. Roll the dough for each cookie between your hands into a ball. Have some flour handy to dust your hands in case the dough is too stick to work with. Place the balls on your baking sheet, leaving 2 inches between them.

5. Place the baking sheet on the center rack in the oven, and bake the cookies for about 12-15 minutes (10-12 minutes for smaller cookies), or until the cookie centers no longer have the shiny look of raw dough.
6. Remove the baking sheet from the oven, and use a metal spatula to lift the cookies off the sheet and onto the rack to cool completely. If you're using parchment paper, there's no need to let the cookies cool on the rack. Slide the paper with the hit cookies off the baking sheet and onto a flat surface to cool.
